\input texinfo.tex    @c -*-Als-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename Als
@settitle Als
@c %**end of header

@c Constants
@set name Als
@set version V7.2
@set nameversion @value{name} @value{version}

@c General format
@paragraphindent none
@exampleindent 0

@c Title and front page
@node Top
@ifhtml
@center @titlefont{@value{nameversion}}
@end ifhtml
@ifnothtml
@top @center @value{nameversion}
@end ifnothtml

Als lists files, directory contents... It supports several powerfull options
for the selection of entries, the output format of each entry, and general
formatting options.

@menu
* General syntax::             General arguments of als.
* Entry selection::            Specify which entry to select.
* Entry format::               Specify how to show each entry selected.
* General format::             Specify general formating options.
* Other options::              Other options.
* Exit code::                  Meaning of Als exit codes.
@end menu

@node General syntax, Entry selection, Top, Top
@chapter General arguments of als

@example
Usage: als [ @{ <option> @} ] [ @{ <file_or_dir_spec> @} ]
or   : als  --help | -v | --version@*
@end example
List files or directory contents.@*
@example
@end example

Note on compatibility between options:@*
- Some options options are meaningful only when some other option is provided.
They are accepted and ignored when provided alone.
@example
Example:
Option -h is usefull only when -l is provided. So "als -h" is the same as "als".
@end example
- Some options are mutually exclusive. This is reported as an error.
@example
Examples:
-d and -n are mutually exclusive.
-S is not compatible with some other formating options (-l, -1 and -c).
@end example

@node Entry selection, Entry format, General syntax, Top
@chapter Specify which entry to select
@example
-a (--all)                 Show all entries including hidden ones
                             (starting with '.')
-A (--All)                 Show all entries except "." and ".."
-D (--directories)         Show only directories
-L (--links)               Show only symbolic links
-F (--files)               Show only regular files
-B (--broken_links)        Show only broken symbolic links

-R (--recursive)           Scan directories recursively
--depth=<positive>         Scan only to given depth (needs "-R")

--skip_dirs                Skip directories from arguments
                             (usefull whan calling "asl *")

<match_name> ::= -m <criteria> | --match=<criteria>
  <criteria> ::= <templates> | @@<regex>
  <templates> ::= <template> [ @{ ,<template> @} ]
                           Keep only files that match the ciriteria
                            (one template or the regular expression)
<exclude_name> ::= -e <criteria> | --exclude=<criteria>
                           Exclude files that match the ciriteria
<match_dir> ::= --match_dir=<criteria>
                           Scan only directories that match the criteria
<exclude_dir> ::= --exclude_dir=<criteria>
                           Don't scan directories that match the criteria

<date_spec> [ <date_spec> ]
  <date_spec> ::= -d <date_comp><date> | --date=<date_comp><date>
  <date_comp> ::= eq | lt | le | gt | ge
  <date>      ::= yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss | yyyy-mm-dd | Thh:mm:ss
                | <positive><duration>
  <duration>  ::= Y | M | D | h | m
                           Keep files that match the date specification
                            (before, after or equal to a given date or delay)
  -n <date> (--newer=<date>) is a shortcut to "-d ge<date>"
@end example

@node Entry format, General format, Entry selection, Top
@chapter Specify how to show each entry selected
@example
-l (--list)                Show rights, owner, size, date, symbolic link target
-1 (--1row)                One name per line
-c (--classify)            Append '/' to dirs, '@@' to symbolic links
-h (--human)               Show sizes in friendly format (e.g. 1K, 2G)
-p (--path)                Show full path of entries
<separator> ::= -S <string> | --separator=<string>
                           Insert <string> beween each entry
--follow_links             Show final target of symbolic links
--date_iso                 Show date in strict ISO format (<date>T<time>)
@end example

@node General format, Other options, Entry format, Top
@chapter Specify general formating options
@example
-s (--size)                Sort by decrescent size (see also "-r")
-t (--time)                Sort by decrescent time (see also "-r")
-r (--reverse)             Sort (by name, size or time) in reverse order
-N (--no_sort)             Keep order same as in the directory structure

-M (--merge)               Show a global list of entries (without dir names)

-T (--total)               Also show total size of listed entries
@end example

@node Other options, Exit code, General format, Top
@chapter Other options
@example
--help                     Show online help
-v (--version)             Show current version of Als
@end example

@node Exit code, , Other options, Top
@chapter Meaning of Als exit codes
Als exits with 0 if a file or dir has been shown, with 1 otherwise and
with 2 on error.

@bye
